Documentation RTC and user service (#13578) (#13591)
jupyterlab/jupyterlab: docs/source/extension/documents.rst

and with a text model. Different models for the same file path do not directly
communicate with each other.

> Models contain an instance of `ISharedDocument <https://jupyter-ydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api/interfaces/ISharedDocument.html>`_
> that acts as data storage for the model's content. As of JupyterLab 4, the default data
> storage implementation is a `YDocument <https://jupyter-ydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api/classes/YDocument.html>`_
> based on `Yjs <https://docs.yjs.dev>`_, a high-performance CRDT for building collaborative
> applications. Both the interface and the implementation are provided by the package
> `@jupyter/ydoc <https://github.com/jupyter-server/jupyter_ydoc>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Models contain an instance of `ModelDB <../api/classes/observables.modeldb-1.html>`__
that acts as data storage for the model's content. In JupyterLab 3.1, we introduced
the package ``@jupyterlab/shared-models`` to swap ``ModelDB`` as a data storage
to make 'documents' collaborative. We implemented these shared models using
`Yjs <https://docs.yjs.dev>`_, a high-performance CRDT for building collaborative applications
that automatically sync.
Starting with JupyterLab 3.6, the shared models have been extracted in the external package
`@jupyter/ydoc <https://github.com/jupyter-server/jupyter_ydoc>`_.
At the moment, models contain both a ``ModelDB`` and a ``Shared Model`` instance, so it is
possible to access ``ModelDB`` yet. But starting with JupyterLab 4, the ``ModelDB`` storage will be removed.
```

`Document widgets <../api/classes/docregistry.documentregistry-1.html>`__ represent
a view of a document model. There can be multiple document widgets associated with
a single document model, and they naturally stay in sync with each other since they
are views on the same underlying data model.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

`Shared Models <https://jupyter-ydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api/index.html>`__ are models
using Yjs’ shared types as a data structures instead of ``ModelDB``.

```
